Create release-3.36.md (#5075)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2022/release-3.36.md

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.65 release'
publishDate: 2022-01-21T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces...'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.36'
published: false
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 3.36 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Batch Changes on forks

Before this release, creating a batch change required the user (or a service-account) to have write-access to every target repository. This was incompatible with having tight repository access control and impractical at a large scale. There used to be competing priorities: you want all users to be able to create batch changes on all repositories, but not grant them overly broad write permissions.

> That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes): branches created by Batch Changes can now be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch. This solves common access control challenges, and allows companies to safely enable Batch Changes for all users. In this version, this is an instance setting that is either on for all users, or off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes): branches created by Batch Changes can now be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch. This solves common access control challenges, and allows companies to safely enable Batch Changes for all users. In this version, this is an instance setting that is either on for all users, or off.
```

## Batch Changes on forks

Before this release, creating a batch change required the user (or a service-account) to have write-access to every target repository. This was incompatible with having tight repository access control and impractical at a large scale. There used to be competing priorities: you want all users to be able to create batch changes on all repositories, but not grant them overly broad write permissions.

That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes): branches created by Batch Changes can now be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch. This solves common access control challenges, and allows companies to safely enable Batch Changes for all users. In this version, this is an instance setting that is either on for all users, or off.

## Find repo files faster with fuzzy finder

Use the new fuzzy file finder to quickly open a file from a repository. The keyboard shortcut to activate the fuzzy file finder is Cmd+K on macOS and Ctrl+K on Linux/Windows. Note that the fuzzy finder does not activate in non-repository related pages like search results.

> <img class="blog-image" title="Fuzzy finder" alt="An example of using fuzzy finder to navigate to test files within the sourcegraph/sourcegraph repo." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/fuzzyfinder.gif">

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<img class="blog-image" title="Fuzzy finder" alt="An example of using fuzzy finder to navigate to test files within the sourcegraph/sourcegraph repo." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/fuzzyfinder.gif">
```

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.65 release'
publishDate: 2022-01-21T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces...'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.36'
published: false
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 3.36 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Batch Changes on forks

> Before this release, creating a batch change required the user (or a service-account) to have write-access to every target repository. This was incompatible with having tight repository access control and impractical at a large scale. There used to be competing priorities: you want all users to be able to create batch changes on all repositories, but not grant them overly broad write permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before this release, creating a batch change required you (or your service-account) to have write-access to every target repository. This was incompatible with having tight repository access control, and was impractical at a large scale; you want all users to be able to create batch changes on all repositories, but also not grant them overly broad write permissions.
```

Reviewer: Cc @malomarrec

> That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes): branches created by Batch Changes can now be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch. This solves common access control challenges, and allows companies to safely enable Batch Changes for all users. In this version, this is an instance setting that is either on for all users, or off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes), which makes it possible for branches created by Batch Changes to be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch. This solves those access control challenges and lets you safely enable Batch Changes for everyone. In this version, this is an instance setting that is either on for all users, or off.
```

Reviewer: @malomarrec if we're mentioning there's a new setting we should also say what the default is.

## Find repo files faster with fuzzy finder

> Use the new fuzzy file finder to quickly open a file from a repository. The keyboard shortcut to activate the fuzzy file finder is Cmd+K on macOS and Ctrl+K on Linux/Windows. Note that the fuzzy finder does not activate in non-repository related pages like search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to introduce a new fuzzy file finder which can help you quickly open a file from your repository. The keyboard shortcut to activate it is Cmd+K on macOS, or Ctrl+K on Linux/Windows. Note that it will not activate in non-repository related pages, such as search results for example.
```

Reviewer: Cc @macraig

> We're excited to introduce a new fuzzy file finder which can help you quickly open a file from your repository. The keyboard shortcut to activate it is Cmd+K on macOS, or Ctrl+K on Linux/Windows. Note that it will not activate in non-repository related pages, such as search results for example.

Author: @macraig rather than saying it doesn't work in non-repo pages, can we say where it does work?

For example— "The key shortcut is Cmd+K, and it will work whenever you're looking at a repository-specific page, such as the repo file explorer"

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 release'
publishDate: 2022-01-21T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces...'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.36'
published: false
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 3.36 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Push new branches from Batch Changes to forks

Before this release, creating a batch change required you (or your service-account) to have write-access to every target repository. This was incompatible with having tight repository access control, and was impractical at a large scale; you want all users to be able to create batch changes on all repositories, but also not grant them overly broad write permissions.

> That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes), which makes it possible for branches created by Batch Changes to be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch. This solves those access control challenges and lets you safely enable Batch Changes for everyone. In Sourcegraph 3.36, this is an instance setting that can be turned either on or off for all users, and is off by default.

Author: ```suggestion
That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes), which makes it possible for branches created by Batch Changes to be pushed to a fork of the repository rather than the repository itself. This solves those access control challenges and lets you safely enable Batch Changes for everyone. In Sourcegraph 3.36, this is an instance setting that can be turned either on or off for all users, and is off by default.
```

## Find repo files faster with fuzzy finder

We're excited to introduce a new fuzzy file finder which can help you quickly open a file from your repository. The keyboard shortcut to activate it is Cmd+K on macOS, or Ctrl+K on Linux/Windows. Note that it will only activate when you're on repository-related pages, such as the repository overview page for example.

<img class="blog-image" title="Fuzzy finder" alt="An example of using fuzzy finder to navigate to test files within the sourcegraph/sourcegraph repo." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/fuzzyfinder.gif">

## Notebooks in beta

> We're excited to announce that [Notebooks](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks) have moved out of Experimental and into Beta! Notebooks are a great way to document code and codebases to onboard new team members or contributors, or keep track of bug resolutions, and more. Recently, we made a [Notebook](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/Tm90ZWJvb2s6MQ==) to identify log4j dependencies. Notebooks are shareable, and you can star ones you find useful to keep track of them or to help others find useful Notebooks.

Author: ```suggestion
We're excited to announce that [Notebooks](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks) have moved out of Experimental and into Beta! Notebooks are a great way to document code and codebases to onboard new team members, keep track of bug resolutions, or record search examples to share with teammates. Recently, we published a public [Notebook](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/Tm90ZWJvb2s6MQ==) to identify log4j dependencies. Notebooks are shareable, and you can star ones you find useful to keep track of them or to help others find useful Notebooks.
```

---

> title: 'Sourcegraph 3.65 release'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 release'
```

publishDate: 2022-01-21T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces...'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.36'
published: false
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 3.36 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Batch Changes on forks

Before this release, creating a batch change required you (or your service-account) to have write-access to every target repository. This was incompatible with having tight repository access control, and was impractical at a large scale; you want all users to be able to create batch changes on all repositories, but also not grant them overly broad write permissions.

> That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes), which makes it possible for branches created by Batch Changes to be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch. This solves those access control challenges and lets you safely enable Batch Changes for everyone. In this version, this is an instance setting that is either on for all users, or off (default).

Author: @malomarrec I think this may be a little confusing as written, where you say "makes it possible for branches created by BC to be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of a branch". Does this suggestion make sense?

```suggestion
That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes), which makes it possible for branches created by Batch Changes to be pushed to a fork of the repository instead of the repository itself. This solves those access control challenges and lets you safely enable Batch Changes for everyone. In this version, this is an instance setting that is either on for all users, or off (default).
```

## Find repo files faster with fuzzy finder

We're excited to introduce a new fuzzy file finder which can help you quickly open a file from your repository. The keyboard shortcut to activate it is Cmd+K on macOS, or Ctrl+K on Linux/Windows. Note that it will not activate in non-repository related pages, such as search results for example.

<img class="blog-image" title="Fuzzy finder" alt="An example of using fuzzy finder to navigate to test files within the sourcegraph/sourcegraph repo." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/fuzzyfinder.gif">

## Notebooks in beta

> We're excited to announce that Notebooks have moved out of Experimental and into Beta! Notebooks are a great way to document code and codebases to onboard new team members or contributors, or keep track of bug resolutions, and more. Recently, we made a [Notebook](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/Tm90ZWJvb2s6MQ==) to identify log4j dependencies!

Reviewer: Listing more examples would be good instead of saying "and more" since this is a new feature for a lot of people.

Reviewer: Too many excalamation points I think :)

> To try them out, make sure Notebooks are enabled in your settings by setting showSearchNotebook to true under the experimentalFeatures property in your settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To try them out, make sure Notebooks are enabled in your settings (by setting `showSearchNotebook` to `true` under the `experimentalFeatures` property.)
```

> Once you have Notebooks enabled, go ahead and [explore](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks?tab=explore) some public notebooks!

Reviewer: Maybe combine with previous sentence instead of separating this into a separate paragraph. Also doesn't need an exclamation point.

## Query-based search contexts in beta

Search contexts can now be defined with a restricted search query as an alternative to a specific list of repositories and revisions.

> What does this mean for users? First, this provides search context support for monorepos. Second, and just as impactful, users with thousands of repositories and different teams or sub-organizations can easily define dynamic search contexts with a query. No more specifying dozens or hundreds (or more!) repositories and keeping the list up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

What does this mean for users? First, this provides search context support for monorepos. Second, and just as impactful, users with thousands of repositories and different teams or sub-organizations can easily define dynamic search contexts with a query. No more specifying dozens or hundreds (or more!) repositories and keeping the list up to date.
```

Reviewer: Paragraphs must have a blank line between in markdown.

Reviewer: That said, I don't really know if these need to be separate paragraphs?

> You can also now create new search contexts right from the search results page. Once you've enabled query-based search contexts, you'll see a Create context button above the search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also now create new search contexts right from the search results page. Once you've enabled query-based search contexts, you'll see a Create Context button above the search results.
```

Reviewer 2: @jyavorska going to leave it as is just because the button text is actually "Create context"

> Check the [docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/search_contexts#beta-query-based-search-contexts) to learn more about how to enable and use query-based search contexts.

Reviewer: Maybe combine this paragraph with the previous one.

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 release'
publishDate: 2022-01-21T10:00-07:00

> description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces Notebooks and query-based search contexts in Beta, a new file fuzzy finder, and the ability to push branches from batch changes to forks.'

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - It looks like Notebooks is capitalized in the product. for consistency, let's leave it capitalized here.

> description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces Notebooks and query-based search contexts in Beta, a new file fuzzy finder, and the ability to push branches from batch changes to forks.'

Author: ```suggestion
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces Notebooks and query-based search contexts in Beta, a new file fuzzy finder, and the ability to push branches from Batch Changes to forks.'
```

> description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces Notebooks and query-based search contexts in Beta, a new file fuzzy finder, and the ability to push branches from Batch Changes to forks.'

Reviewer 4: The order of items in this description doesn't match the order in the post itself. Should we make them consistent? I'm assuming the order in the post itself was decided based on priority/impact of the items

Author: ```suggestion
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.36 introduces the ability to push branches from Batch Changes to forks, a new file fuzzy finder, Notebooks for code search documentation, and query-based search contexts.'

Author: Good call! Re-working this based on the post order.

tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.36'

> published: false

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
published: true
```

heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/sourcegraph-3-36-release.png
changelogItems:
  - description: 'Search contexts can now be defined with a restricted search query, allowing them to be used for subsections of monorepos or selective groupings of repos. Allowed filters: `repo`, `rev`, `file`, `lang`, `case`, `fork`, `visibility`. `OR`, `AND` expressions are also allowed. This is a `Beta` feature and may change in following releases.'
    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/search_contexts#beta-query-based-search-contexts
    category: Search
  - description: 'Batch changes will be created on forks of the upstream repository if the new `batchChanges.enforceForks` site setting is enabled, allowing users with restricted repository access to take advantage of Batch Changes.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/17879
    category: Batch Changes

>   - description: 'Notebooks are now fully persistable and can be shared via a unique URL. We support two visibility modes: private (only the creator can view the notebook) and public (everyone can view the notebook). This is a `Beta` feature and may change in following releases.'

Author: Previously notebooks functioned as a sandbox environment, but now individual notebooks can be saved and shared. I can adjust this language.

```suggestion
  - description: 'Notebooks can now be saved to your account and can be shared via a unique URL. We support two visibility modes: private (only the creator can view the notebook) and public (everyone can view the notebook). This is a `Beta` feature and may change in following releases.'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/27384
    category: Search

>   - description: 'Search results across repositories are now ordered by repository rank to make results more relevant. By default the rank is the number of stars a repository has. An administrator can inflate the rank of a repository via `experimentalFeatures.ranking.repoScores`. If you notice increased latency in results, you can disable this feature by setting `experimentalFeatures.ranking.maxReorderQueueSize` to 0.'

Author: Yes — this makes sense to me.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/29856
    category: Search
  - description: 'Symbolic links are now searchable to make files easier to find. Previously it was possible to navigate to symbolic links in the repository tree view, however the symbolic links were ignored during searches.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/zoekt/pull/237
    category: Search

>   - description: "Sourcegraph's API (streaming search, GraphQL, etc.) may now be used from any domain when using an access token for authentication, or with no authentication in the case of Sourcegraph.com."

Author: I initially thought this opened our API to public usage, but it was already public with restrictions, and this seems to be more of a security change. Checking in with the engineering team, but it might make sense to remove if there's no impact to customers.

>   - description: "Sourcegraph's API (streaming search, GraphQL, etc.) may now be used from any domain when using an access token for authentication, or with no authentication in the case of Sourcegraph.com."

Author: Can't find any use cases or direct impact to existing customers for this one, so I'm removing for now.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/28775
    category: API
  - description: 'The endpoint `/search/stream` will be retired in favor of `/.api/search/stream`. This requires no action unless you have developed custom code against `/search/stream`. We will support both endpoints for a short period of time before removing `/search/stream`. Please refer to the documentation for more information.'
    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/api/stream_api
    category: API
---

Sourcegraph 3.36 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

> ## Push new branches from Batch Changes to forks

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Users with restricted repository access can now push new branches from Batch Changes to forks
```
This might not be the best way to word it, but it would be good to call out what the value of this is in the heading!

Before this release, creating a batch change required you (or your service-account) to have write-access to every target repository. This was incompatible with having tight repository access control, and was impractical at a large scale; you want all users to be able to create batch changes on all repositories, but also not grant them overly broad write permissions.

> That's why we are introducing [batch changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes), which makes it possible for branches created by Batch Changes to be pushed to a fork of the repository rather than the repository itself. This solves those access control challenges and lets you safely enable Batch Changes for everyone. In Sourcegraph 3.36, this is an instance setting that can be turned either on or off for all users, and is off by default.

Author: The specific setting to configure this appears in the changelog, so I think a deep-link is good here. 

Also, re: capitalization, yes — I believe caps here makes it more consistent since in this sentence we are introducing this as a product, not talking about the "batch changes" that are part of that product

```suggestion
That's why we are introducing [Batch Changes on forks](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/config/batch_changes#forks), which makes it possible for branches created by Batch Changes to be pushed to a fork of the repository rather than the repository itself. This solves those access control challenges and lets you safely enable Batch Changes for everyone. In Sourcegraph 3.36, this is an instance setting that can be turned either on or off for all users, and is off by default.
```

## Find repo files faster with fuzzy finder

We're excited to introduce a new fuzzy file finder which can help you quickly open a file from your repository. The keyboard shortcut to activate it is Cmd+K on macOS, or Ctrl+K on Linux/Windows. Note that it will only activate when you're on repository-related pages, such as the repository overview page for example.

> <img class="blog-image" title="Fuzzy finder" alt="An example of using fuzzy finder to navigate to test files within the sourcegraph/sourcegraph repo." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.36/fuzzyfinder.gif">

Reviewer 4: @jyavorska Wondering if you know how to center this image?

<img width="1088" alt="Screenshot 2022-01-21 at 11 46 35" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/82806852/150548270-174c1e5c-a610-4166-b757-6f179ebab8d8.png">

## Document your code searches with Notebooks

We're excited to announce that [Notebooks](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks) have moved out of Experimental and into Beta! Notebooks are a great way to document code and codebases to onboard new team members, keep track of bug resolutions, or record search examples to share with teammates. Recently, we published a public [Notebook](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/Tm90ZWJvb2s6MQ==) to identify log4j dependencies. Notebooks are shareable, and you can star ones you find useful to keep track of them or to help others find useful Notebooks.

> To try them out, make sure Notebooks are enabled in your settings (by setting `showSearchNotebook` to `true` under the `experimentalFeatures` property.) Once you have Notebooks enabled, go ahead and [explore](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks?tab=explore) some public notebooks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To try them out, make sure Notebooks are enabled in your settings (by setting `showSearchNotebook` to `true` under the `experimentalFeatures` property.) Once you have Notebooks enabled, go ahead and [explore](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks?tab=explore) some public Notebooks.
```

## Scope searches on monorepos and large codebases with query-based search contexts

Search contexts can now be defined with a restricted search query as an alternative to a specific list of repositories and revisions, a new feature we're launching in Beta.

What does this mean for users? First, this provides search context support for monorepos. Second, and just as impactful, users with thousands of repositories and different teams or sub-organizations can easily define dynamic search contexts with a query. No more specifying dozens or hundreds (or more!) repositories and keeping the list up to date.

> You can also now create new search contexts right from the search results page. Once you've enabled query-based search contexts, you'll see a Create context button above the search results. Check the [docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/search_contexts#beta-query-based-search-contexts) to learn more about how to enable and use query-based search contexts.

Reviewer 3: Is there a way to provide instructions without using directional language? The content guidelines recommend against this for accessibility reasons: https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/company-info-and-process/communication/content_guidelines/style_and_mechanics#avoid-directional-language

Can we just say "click the "Create context" button?

Author: ```suggestion
You can also now create new search contexts right from the search results page. Once you've enabled query-based search contexts, you can run a search and click the "Create context" button to turn that query into a search context. Check the [docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/search_contexts#beta-query-based-search-contexts) to learn more about how to enable and use query-based search contexts.
```
